NXDOC-2360: Document property characteristic (#1842)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nxdoc/nuxeo-server/data-store/data-modeling/schema-fields.md

)
```

> ## Property Characteristic

Reviewer: What about `Attributes` instead of `Characteristic`?

Author: I use this one to follow the code.

I don't know which one is better, what do you think @efge?

Reviewer 2: Characteristic seems fine to my ear but it's usually used in the plural: Property Characteristics.

A property characteristic represents additional information a property could hold such as secured, deprecated or indexed.

See below the basic contribution for a property characteristic:

```xml
<component name="my.component.name">
  <extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.schema.TypeService" point="schema">
    <property schema="SCHEMA" name="PROPERTY" ... />
  </extension>
</component>
```

`SCHEMA` is the full schema name and `PROPERTY` is the path representing the property, for example:
- `dublincore` and `created` for the `dc:created` property
- `files` and `files/*/file/name` for the `files:files/*/file/name` property.

### Secured

When a property is secured, only Administrators can edit them. This prevents regular users to edit sensitive data.

Contribute the xml below to make a property secured:

```xml
<component name="my.component.name">
  <extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.schema.TypeService" point="schema">
    <property schema="SCHEMA" name="PROPERTY" secured="true" />
  </extension>
</component>
```

The following properties are secured by default in Nuxeo Platform:
- `dc:created`
- `dc:modified`
- `dc:creator`
- `dc:contributors`
- `dc:lastContributor`

> ### Indexed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### IndexOrder
```
To keep it consistent with the attribute name.

{{#> callout type='info' heading='Only works on MongoDB'}}
{{/callout}}

> Since Nuxeo 2021.7, you can contribute indexes to create a Nuxeo startup. Nuxeo support two types of index: ascending and descending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Nuxeo 2021.7, you can contribute indexes to be created at Nuxeo startup. Nuxeo supports two types of index: ascending and descending.
```

> Since Nuxeo 2021.7, you can contribute indexes to create a Nuxeo startup. Nuxeo support two types of index: ascending and descending.

Reviewer: What about adding something for `none`, to be able to disable index creation?

> Since Nuxeo 2021.7, you can contribute indexes to be created at Nuxeo startup. Nuxeo supports these types of index: `ascending`, `descending`, and `none` to disable the index.

Author: The change has been reverted and won't be in 2021.7.

Contribute the xml below to make a property indexed:

```xml
<component name="my.component.name">
  <extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.core.schema.TypeService" point="schema">
    <property schema="SCHEMA" name="PROPERTY" indexOrder="ascending" />
    <property schema="SCHEMA" name="PROPERTY" indexOrder="descending" />
  </extension>
</component>
```

### Deprecation

You can mark a property as deprecated or removed with or without a fallback (present in the same schema).

> A deprecated property still has its declaration in the schema XSD. A warn log will be printed if code tries to read or write this property. The fallback takes the precedence when reading the property, it it is null then the deprecated property is returned. During write operation, both properties receive the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A deprecated property still has its declaration in the schema XSD. A warn log will be printed if the code tries to read or write this property. The fallback takes precedence when reading the property, if it is null then the deprecated property is returned. During write operations, both properties receive the value.
```

> A removed property doesn't have anymore its declaration in the schema XSD. An error log will be printed if code tries to read or write this property. Null will be returned or nothing will be stored if no fallback is defined, otherwise the fallback takes the precedence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A removed property doesn't have anymore its declaration in the schema XSD. An error log will be printed if the code tries to read or write this property. Null will be returned and nothing will be stored if no fallback is defined, otherwise, the fallback takes precedence.
```
